# Big Sugar
## Recipe Rating Analysis
Project for DSC 80 at UCSD
Sahith Cherumandanda and Kavya Sriram

## Introduction
This dataset contains information on recipes from 'food.com'. It contains over 80,000 recipes with data about a recipe's nutrition values (calories (#), total fat (PDV), sugar (PDV), sodium (PDV), protein (PDV), saturated fat (PDV), and carbohydrates (PDV)), the number of ingredients needed, and it's average rating (1.0-5.0), among other values. The average rating was calculated using a separate dataset containing reviews and ratings for different recipes. 

In analyzing this dataset, a natural question that arises is as follows: Do recipes with higher-than-average sugar content have higher-than-average ratings?

Answering the above question using this dataset has immediate consequences. If the answer is 'yes', when searching for reputable recipes going forward, bear in mind that highly rated recipes tend to be sweeter on average.

## Cleaning and EDA
The following columns were cleaned: 'submitted', 'tags', 'nutrition', 'steps', and 'ingredients'. The 'submitted' column contained the date of when a recipe was added to 'food.com'. Each date was stored as a *string*. To clean the column, we changed the type of each date to pandas *datetime* object. Each value in the 'tags', 'nutrition', 'steps', and 'ingredients' columns was stored as a *string* that resembled a *list*. To clean each of those columns, we stripped the unnecessary quotation marks and turned each *string* into a *list* of the required type (*int* for 'nutrition' and *string* for the rest). Finally, we added a column to the DataFrame, called 'sugar', consisting solely of the third value of each list in the 'nutrition' column, i.e. a recipe's sugar content.

In the below slice of the DataFrame, we have dropped the 'id', 'contributor_id', and 'steps' as they have little relevance to our analysis. These are the top 5 rows of the DataFrame

<table border="1" class="dataframe">\n  <thead>\n    <tr style="text-align: right;">\n      <th></th>\n      <th>name</th>\n      <th>minutes</th>\n      <th>submitted</th>\n      <th>tags</th>\n      <th>nutrition</th>\n      <th>n_steps</th>\n      <th>description</th>\n      <th>ingredients</th>\n      <th>n_ingredients</th>\n      <th>rating</th>\n      <th>sugar</th>\n    </tr>\n  </thead>\n  <tbody>\n    <tr>\n      <th>0</th>\n      <td>1 brownies in the world    best ever</td>\n      <td>40</td>\n      <td>2008-10-27</td>\n      <td>[60-minutes-or-less, time-to-make, course, main-ingredient, preparation, for-large-groups, desserts, lunch, snacks, cookies-and-brownies, chocolate, bar-cookies, brownies, number-of-servings]</td>\n      <td>[138.4, 10.0, 50.0, 3.0, 3.0, 19.0, 6.0]</td>\n      <td>10</td>\n      <td>these are the most; chocolatey, moist, rich, dense, fudgy, delicious brownies that you\'ll ever make.....sereiously! there\'s no doubt that these will be your fav brownies ever for you can add things to them or make them plain.....either way they\'re pure heaven!</td>\n      <td>[bittersweet chocolate, unsalted butter, eggs, granulated sugar, unsweetened cocoa powder, vanilla extract, brewed espresso, kosher salt, all-purpose flour]</td>\n      <td>9</td>\n      <td>4.0</td>\n      <td>50.0</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th>1</th>\n      <td>1 in canada chocolate chip cookies</td>\n      <td>45</td>\n      <td>2011-04-11</td>\n      <td>[60-minutes-or-less, time-to-make, cuisine, preparation, north-american, for-large-groups, canadian, british-columbian, number-of-servings]</td>\n      <td>[595.1, 46.0, 211.0, 22.0, 13.0, 51.0, 26.0]</td>\n      <td>12</td>\n      <td>this is the recipe that we use at my school cafeteria for chocolate chip cookies. they must be the best chocolate chip cookies i have ever had! if you don\'t have margarine or don\'t like it, then just use butter (softened) instead.</td>\n      <td>[white sugar, brown sugar, salt, margarine, eggs, vanilla, water, all-purpose flour, whole wheat flour, baking soda, chocolate chips]</td>\n      <td>11</td>\n      <td>5.0</td>\n      <td>211.0</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th>2</th>\n      <td>412 broccoli casserole</td>\n      <td>40</td>\n      <td>2008-05-30</td>\n      <td>[60-minutes-or-less, time-to-make, course, main-ingredient, preparation, side-dishes, vegetables, easy, beginner-cook, broccoli]</td>\n      <td>[194.8, 20.0, 6.0, 32.0, 22.0, 36.0, 3.0]</td>\n      <td>6</td>\n      <td>since there are already 411 recipes for broccoli casserole posted to "zaar" ,i decided to call this one  #412 broccoli casserole.i don\'t think there are any like this one in the database. i based this one on the famous "green bean casserole" from campbell\'s soup. but i think mine is better since i don\'t like cream of mushroom soup.submitted to "zaar" on may 28th,2008</td>\n      <td>[frozen broccoli cuts, cream of chicken soup, sharp cheddar cheese, garlic powder, ground black pepper, salt, milk, soy sauce, french-fried onions]</td>\n      <td>9</td>\n      <td>5.0</td>\n      <td>6.0</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th>3</th>\n      <td>millionaire pound cake</td>\n      <td>120</td>\n      <td>2008-02-12</td>\n      <td>[time-to-make, course, cuisine, preparation, occasion, north-american, desserts, american, southern-united-states, dinner-party, holiday-event, cakes, dietary, christmas, thanksgiving, low-sodium, low-in-something, taste-mood, sweet, 4-hours-or-less]</td>\n      <td>[878.3, 63.0, 326.0, 13.0, 20.0, 123.0, 39.0]</td>\n      <td>7</td>\n      <td>why a millionaire pound cake?  because it\'s super rich!  this scrumptious cake is the pride of an elderly belle from jackson, mississippi.  the recipe comes from "the glory of southern cooking" by james villas.</td>\n      <td>[butter, sugar, eggs, all-purpose flour, whole milk, pure vanilla extract, almond extract]</td>\n      <td>7</td>\n      <td>5.0</td>\n      <td>326.0</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th>4</th>\n      <td>2000 meatloaf</td>\n      <td>90</td>\n      <td>2012-03-06</td>\n      <td>[time-to-make, course, main-ingredient, preparation, main-dish, potatoes, vegetables, 4-hours-or-less, meatloaf, simply-potatoes2]</td>\n      <td>[267.0, 30.0, 12.0, 12.0, 29.0, 48.0, 2.0]</td>\n      <td>17</td>\n      <td>ready, set, cook! special edition contest entry: a mediterranean flavor inspired meatloaf dish. featuring: simply potatoes - shredded hash browns, egg, bacon, spinach, red bell pepper, and goat cheese.</td>\n      <td>[meatloaf mixture, unsmoked bacon, goat cheese, unsalted butter, eggs, baby spinach, yellow onion, red bell pepper, simply potatoes shredded hash browns, fresh garlic, kosher salt, white pepper, olive oil]</td>\n      <td>13</td>\n      <td>5.0</td>\n      <td>12.0</td>\n    </tr>\n  </tbody>\n</table>